In this demo, I will show you how RBAC works
in istio with our helloworld demo.
First of all, I deleted all the pods
and I basically started over with a new cluster to make sure
that everything from the previous demos is gone.
And then first go over the yaml files,
the configuration.
Let's have a look at helloworld-rbac-enable.yaml.
Here I enabled RBAC for our default namespace.
So we here see ON_WITH_INCLUSION of the default namespace.
I also have to make sure that our mtls is enabled,
so I'll use the MeshPolicy to enable-mtls
and I'll create DestinationRule to enable-mtls
for all the namespaces.
I also create this DestinationRule for the api-server
because the api-server is not using mtls.
Then I have the helloworld-rbac.yaml
and this includes all the deployments and the services
from the helloworld.yaml itself,
plus I added also the service accounts that we need.
So let's have a look at this helloworld-rbac.yaml.
This is the first service role,
it's called hello-viewer,
the one that I showed you in the overview
in the previous lecture.
So we'll need this one for the ingress controller.
So the ingress controller will be able
to do a GET and HEAD on the helloworld service.
Then we have the world-viewer.
This is for the hello service, because the hello service
needs to be able to contact the world service.
And then third, we have the world-2-viewer,
so we'll give this one to the world service,
because the world service need to be able to access
the world-2 service.
Then we can do the service role bindings.
So I explained to you that we need
to bind these service roles to a subject.
And this can be a service account or we can use properties.
In this case, we're going to bind it using properties.
We're going to say if the source.namespace is istio-system,
then we'll bind the hello-viewer.
So anything in istio-system
has the service role hello-viewer,
and hello-viewer can then access the hello pod,
the hello service.
Then we have a ServiceRoleBinding for the subject
cluster.local/ns for namespace, namespace is default,
and the service account is hello.
So we're gonna create a service account hello,
and that we will attach to the hello service,
and this needs access to the world-viewer.
And the world-viewer can then access the world service.
And then third, we have ServiceRoleBinding,
and is the world-user-binding,
and this will bind with the world service account.
The world service account will be attached to the
world pods, and then this one is unable to contact
the world-2 service, so we attach it
to the world-2-viewer ServiceRole.
So then we need to create these two service accounts,
so we have a ServiceAccount hello, and ServiceAccount world.
Here is the hello ServiceAccount,
here's the world ServiceAccount.
And then from here on, it's the helloworld.yaml deployments,
including a service account for the hello deployment
and a service account for the world deployment.
So this is exactly the same,
I'm only using one replica though,
so we have the hello deployment, and the hello deployment
is going to use the hello serviceAccountName.
So if you have another look, hello serviceAccountName
is defined here, and then if you go up,
then we see the ServiceRoleBinding
for this subject, ServiceAccount hello,
and the ServiceAccount hello will be bound
to the ServiceRole world-viewer, and we go up again,
then the world-viewer will have access to contact
the world.default.svc.cluster.local using GET and HEAD.
So then we have this deployment for hello,
we have the deployment, we have the service,
we have deployment for world.
Here we also have a service account,
the world service account,
and then we have the service for world,
a deployment for world-2,
world-2 doesn't have a service account
because it doesn't need to contact anything,
and then we have the service world-2.
So these are all the deployments the services
and the service accounts.
And then you have the Gateway,
just like we had in the previous demos,
we have a Gateway and then we have a VirtualService.
This VirtualService will make sure
that we can access the hello-rbac-example.com
and it will then set the destination
on the hello.default.svc.cluster.local.
Then you have a DestinationRule,
which enables ISTIO_MUTUAL
and make sure that we are getting the version one.
So that's it, that's a lot of yaml.
Let's try to execute it,
kubectl create helloworld-rbac-enable.yaml.
This enables RBAC
and it will do...
and then we will use, again,
istioctl to do a kube-inject
over the helloworld-rbac.yaml.
So this will inject the sidecars
and then do the kubectl apply.
You can find, again, all these commands in the readme.
It is then going to create our pods.
So like I said, only one replica this time.
And now if everything went fine,
I should be able to contact our istio ingress,
istio ingress is going to contact hello,
hello will contact world
and world will contact world-2.
So the only difference now
is that if I login to world-2, for example,
I will now be able to contact hello.
Whereas, without RBAC, this is all possible
because all services are open to each other.
This is now running,
so let's have a look at the service again.
Let's do a curl,
host is hello-rbac.example.com.
So this gives us our Hello world.
So this is all working,
the services can contact each other.
Let's now try to login to one of the pods,
to see if we can contact one of the other services.
So let's login to world-2, for example,
and let's use wget to contact the hello service.
The hello service is running on 8080
and wget server return an error,
we got a Forbidden.
We only be able to access our access our services,
depending on how we set our rules.
We cannot just access any service anymore.
So even if I want to access world, it will not work.
Even if I want access world-2 it will not work.
I can access my own local host,
which will still work, three exclamation marks.
But any other service I want to contact, that will not work.
Let's try to login into our hello pod.
Let's do a wget on world
and we set a rule that hello can access world.
So that works,
because the rule allowed us to do that.
So world, we were able to access
and world is able to access world-2.
So then we still got world and the three exclamation marks,
so that works.
But if you would like to contact world-2 directly,
because you just want to see the exclamation marks,
that will not work, we get a Forbidden.
So this way we can shield our services,
so we can use RBAC to setup services serves rules,
to limit access like that.
And, alternatively, we can also use end user to service,
where you can limit the access to your services
from the end user using JWT tokens.
I don't show it in this demo
but here we only used the subject namespace
and service account, but they are also properties
that you can use to allow only authenticated users,
for example.
So this was, again, a long demo, a lot of moving parts.
So for sure you should test this out yourself.
And it's very error prone,
so if something very small is wrong
it obviously will not work because it's access control.
The access needs to be correct,
otherwise you will just get these permission denied
if it's not setup correctly.
So test this out yourself and let me know in the Q&A
if you have any issues with this.